CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, before:

# Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct

## Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering a safe and welcoming environment, we as
the Angular team pledge to make participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity, gender expression,
level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal
appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

## Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment
include:

* Use welcoming and inclusive language
* Respect each other
* Provide and gracefully accept constructive criticism
* Show empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

* Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
* Public or private harassment
* Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic
  address, without explicit permission
* The use of sexualized language or imagery
* Unwelcome sexual attention or advances
* Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
  professional setting

## Our Responsibilities

Angular team are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable
behavior and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in
response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Angular team have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or
reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions
that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, and to ban temporarily or
permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate,
threatening, offensive, or harmful.

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies to all Angular communication channels - online or in person,
and it also applies when an individual is representing the project or its community in
public spaces. Examples of representing a project or community include using an official
project e-mail address, posting via an official social media account, or acting
as an appointed representative at an online or offline event. Representation of
a project may be further defined and clarified by project maintainers.

## Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
reported by contacting the Angular team at conduct@angular.io. All
complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that
is deemed necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. The Angular team
will maintain confidentiality with regard to the reporter of an incident.
Enforcement may result in an indefinite ban from all official Angular communication
channels, or other actions as deemed appropriate by the Angular team.

Angular maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good
faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other
members of the project's leadership.

### Appeal

If you are banned you may contest the decision. To do so email conduct@angular.io with the subject line "Repeal Ban for {{your name here}}" and body with the responses to the following:

* Why do you believe you did not violate the Code of Conduct?
* Were other factors involved in this situation the leadership team may have been unaware of?
* Why do you wish to be a part of the Angular community?

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org), version 1.4,
available at https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct.html

Commit message:

fix: rename the project. [-] It allways should have been engular anyway.

CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, after:

# Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct

## Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering a safe and welcoming environment, we as
the Engular team pledge to make participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity, gender expression,
level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal
appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

## Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment
include:

* Use welcoming and inclusive language
* Respect each other
* Provide and gracefully accept constructive criticism
* Show empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

* Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
* Public or private harassment
* Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic
  address, without explicit permission
* The use of sexualized language or imagery
* Unwelcome sexual attention or advances
* Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
  professional setting

## Our Responsibilities

Engular team are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable
behavior and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in
response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Engular team have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or
reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions
that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, and to ban temporarily or
permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate,
threatening, offensive, or harmful.

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies to all Engular communication channels - online or in person,
and it also applies when an individual is representing the project or its community in
public spaces. Examples of representing a project or community include using an official
project e-mail address, posting via an official social media account, or acting
as an appointed representative at an online or offline event. Representation of
a project may be further defined and clarified by project maintainers.

## Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
reported by contacting the Engular team at conduct@engular.io. All
complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that
is deemed necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. The Engular team
will maintain confidentiality with regard to the reporter of an incident.
Enforcement may result in an indefinite ban from all official Engular communication
channels, or other actions as deemed appropriate by the Engular team.

Engular maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good
faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other
members of the project's leadership.

### Appeal

If you are banned you may contest the decision. To do so email conduct@engular.io with the subject line "Repeal Ban for {{your name here}}" and body with the responses to the following:

* Why do you believe you did not violate the Code of Conduct?
* Were other factors involved in this situation the leadership team may have been unaware of?
* Why do you wish to be a part of the Engular community?

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org), version 1.4,
available at https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct.html
