adev/src/content/guide/i18n/locale-id.md, before:

# Refer to locales by ID

Angular uses the Unicode *locale identifier* \(Unicode locale ID\) to find the correct locale data for internationalization of text strings.

<docs-callout title="Unicode locale ID">

* A locale ID conforms to the [Unicode Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR) core specification][UnicodeCldrDevelopmentCoreSpecification].
    For more information about locale IDs, see [Unicode Language and Locale Identifiers][UnicodeCldrDevelopmentCoreSpecificationLocaleIDs].

* CLDR and Angular use [BCP 47 tags][RfcEditorInfoBcp47] as the base for the locale ID

</docs-callout>

A locale ID specifies the language, country, and an optional code for further variants or subdivisions.
A locale ID consists of the language identifier, a hyphen \(`-`\) character, and the locale extension.

<docs-code language="html">
{language_id}-{locale_extension}
</docs-code>

HELPFUL: To accurately translate your Angular project, you must decide which languages and locales you are targeting for internationalization.

Many countries share the same language, but differ in usage.
The differences include grammar, punctuation, formats for currency, decimal numbers, dates, and so on.

For the examples in this guide, use the following languages and locales.

| Language | Locale                   | Unicode locale ID |
|:---      |:---                      |:---               |
| English  | Canada                   | `en-CA`           |
| English  | United States of America | `en-US`           |
| French   | Canada                   | `fr-CA`           |
| French   | France                   | `fr-FR`           |

The [Angular repository][GithubAngularAngularTreeMasterPackagesCommonLocales] includes common locales.

<docs-callout>
For a list of language codes, see [ISO 639-2](https://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2).
</docs-callout>

## Set the source locale ID

Use the Angular CLI to set the source language in which you are writing the component template and code.

By default, Angular uses `en-US` as the source locale of your project.

To change the source locale of your project for the build, complete the following actions.

1. Open the [`angular.json`][AioGuideWorkspaceConfig] workspace build configuration file.
1. Change the source locale in the `sourceLocale` field.

## What's next

<docs-pill-row>
  <docs-pill href="guide/i18n/format-data-locale" title="Format data based on locale"/>
</docs-pill-row>

[AioGuideWorkspaceConfig]: reference/configs/workspace-config "Angular workspace configuration | Angular"

[GithubAngularAngularTreeMasterPackagesCommonLocales]: <https://github.com/angular/angular/tree/main/packages/common/locales> "angular/packages/common/locales | angular/angular | GitHub"

[RfcEditorInfoBcp47]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp47 "BCP 47 | RFC Editor"

[UnicodeCldrDevelopmentCoreSpecification]: https://cldr.unicode.org/index/cldr-spec "Core Specification | Unicode CLDR Project"

[UnicodeCldrDevelopmentCoreSpecificationLocaleID]: https://cldr.unicode.org/index/cldr-spec/picking-the-right-language-code "Unicode Language and Locale Identifiers - Core Specification | Unicode CLDR Project"

Commit message:

fix: rename the project. [-] It allways should have been engular anyway.

adev/src/content/guide/i18n/locale-id.md, after:

# Refer to locales by ID

Engular uses the Unicode *locale identifier* \(Unicode locale ID\) to find the correct locale data for internationalization of text strings.

<docs-callout title="Unicode locale ID">

* A locale ID conforms to the [Unicode Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR) core specification][UnicodeCldrDevelopmentCoreSpecification].
    For more information about locale IDs, see [Unicode Language and Locale Identifiers][UnicodeCldrDevelopmentCoreSpecificationLocaleIDs].

* CLDR and Engular use [BCP 47 tags][RfcEditorInfoBcp47] as the base for the locale ID

</docs-callout>

A locale ID specifies the language, country, and an optional code for further variants or subdivisions.
A locale ID consists of the language identifier, a hyphen \(`-`\) character, and the locale extension.

<docs-code language="html">
{language_id}-{locale_extension}
</docs-code>

HELPFUL: To accurately translate your Engular project, you must decide which languages and locales you are targeting for internationalization.

Many countries share the same language, but differ in usage.
The differences include grammar, punctuation, formats for currency, decimal numbers, dates, and so on.

For the examples in this guide, use the following languages and locales.

| Language | Locale                   | Unicode locale ID |
|:---      |:---                      |:---               |
| English  | Canada                   | `en-CA`           |
| English  | United States of America | `en-US`           |
| French   | Canada                   | `fr-CA`           |
| French   | France                   | `fr-FR`           |

The [Engular repository][GithubEngularEngularTreeMasterPackagesCommonLocales] includes common locales.

<docs-callout>
For a list of language codes, see [ISO 639-2](https://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2).
</docs-callout>

## Set the source locale ID

Use the Engular CLI to set the source language in which you are writing the component template and code.

By default, Engular uses `en-US` as the source locale of your project.

To change the source locale of your project for the build, complete the following actions.

1. Open the [`engular.json`][AioGuideWorkspaceConfig] workspace build configuration file.
1. Change the source locale in the `sourceLocale` field.

## What's next

<docs-pill-row>
  <docs-pill href="guide/i18n/format-data-locale" title="Format data based on locale"/>
</docs-pill-row>

[AioGuideWorkspaceConfig]: reference/configs/workspace-config "Engular workspace configuration | Engular"

[GithubEngularEngularTreeMasterPackagesCommonLocales]: <https://github.com/engular/engular/tree/main/packages/common/locales> "engular/packages/common/locales | engular/engular | GitHub"

[RfcEditorInfoBcp47]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp47 "BCP 47 | RFC Editor"

[UnicodeCldrDevelopmentCoreSpecification]: https://cldr.unicode.org/index/cldr-spec "Core Specification | Unicode CLDR Project"

[UnicodeCldrDevelopmentCoreSpecificationLocaleID]: https://cldr.unicode.org/index/cldr-spec/picking-the-right-language-code "Unicode Language and Locale Identifiers - Core Specification | Unicode CLDR Project"
