adev/src/content/tools/cli/overview.md, before:

# The Angular CLI

The Angular CLI is a command-line interface tool which allows you to scaffold, develop, test, deploy, and maintain Angular applications directly from a command shell.

Angular CLI is published on npm as the `@angular/cli` package and includes a binary named `ng`. Commands invoking `ng` are using the Angular CLI.

<docs-callout title="Try Angular without local setup">

If you are new to Angular, you might want to start with [Try it now!](tutorials/learn-angular), which introduces the essentials of Angular in the context of a ready-made basic online store app for you to examine and modify.
This standalone tutorial takes advantage of the interactive [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com) environment for online development.
You don't need to set up your local environment until you're ready.

</docs-callout>

<docs-card-container>
  <docs-card title="Getting Started" link="Get Started" href="tools/cli/setup-local">
    Install Angular CLI to create and build your first app.
  </docs-card>
  <docs-card title="Command Reference" link="Learn More" href="cli">
    Discover CLI commands to make you more productive with Angular.
  </docs-card>
  <docs-card title="Schematics" link="Learn More" href="tools/cli/schematics">
    Create and run schematics to generate and modify source files in your application automatically.
  </docs-card>
  <docs-card title="Builders" link="Learn More" href="tools/cli/cli-builder">
    Create and run builders to perform complex transformations from your source code to generated build outputs.
  </docs-card>
</docs-card-container>

## CLI command-language syntax

Angular CLI roughly follows Unix/POSIX conventions for option syntax.

### Boolean options

Boolean options have two forms: `--this-option` sets the flag to `true`, `--no-this-option` sets it to `false`.
You can also use `--this-option=false` or `--this-option=true`.
If neither option is supplied, the flag remains in its default state, as listed in the reference documentation.

### Array options

Array options can be provided in two forms: `--option value1 value2` or `--option value1 --option value2`.

### Relative paths

Options that specify files can be given as absolute paths, or as paths relative to the current working directory, which is generally either the workspace or project root.

Commit message:

fix: rename the project. [-] It allways should have been engular anyway.

adev/src/content/tools/cli/overview.md, after:

# The Engular CLI

The Engular CLI is a command-line interface tool which allows you to scaffold, develop, test, deploy, and maintain Engular applications directly from a command shell.

Engular CLI is published on npm as the `@engular/cli` package and includes a binary named `ng`. Commands invoking `ng` are using the Engular CLI.

<docs-callout title="Try Engular without local setup">

If you are new to Engular, you might want to start with [Try it now!](tutorials/learn-engular), which introduces the essentials of Engular in the context of a ready-made basic online store app for you to examine and modify.
This standalone tutorial takes advantage of the interactive [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com) environment for online development.
You don't need to set up your local environment until you're ready.

</docs-callout>

<docs-card-container>
  <docs-card title="Getting Started" link="Get Started" href="tools/cli/setup-local">
    Install Engular CLI to create and build your first app.
  </docs-card>
  <docs-card title="Command Reference" link="Learn More" href="cli">
    Discover CLI commands to make you more productive with Engular.
  </docs-card>
  <docs-card title="Schematics" link="Learn More" href="tools/cli/schematics">
    Create and run schematics to generate and modify source files in your application automatically.
  </docs-card>
  <docs-card title="Builders" link="Learn More" href="tools/cli/cli-builder">
    Create and run builders to perform complex transformations from your source code to generated build outputs.
  </docs-card>
</docs-card-container>

## CLI command-language syntax

Engular CLI roughly follows Unix/POSIX conventions for option syntax.

### Boolean options

Boolean options have two forms: `--this-option` sets the flag to `true`, `--no-this-option` sets it to `false`.
You can also use `--this-option=false` or `--this-option=true`.
If neither option is supplied, the flag remains in its default state, as listed in the reference documentation.

### Array options

Array options can be provided in two forms: `--option value1 value2` or `--option value1 --option value2`.

### Relative paths

Options that specify files can be given as absolute paths, or as paths relative to the current working directory, which is generally either the workspace or project root.
