adev/src/content/guide/components/dom-apis.md, before:

# Using DOM APIs

Tip: This guide assumes you've already read the [Essentials Guide](essentials). Read that first if you're new to Angular.

Angular handles most DOM creation, updates, and removals for you. However, you might rarely need to
directly interact with a component's DOM. Components can inject ElementRef to get a reference to the
component's host element:

```ts
@Component({...})
export class ProfilePhoto {
  constructor(elementRef: ElementRef) {
    console.log(elementRef.nativeElement);
  }
}
```

The `nativeElement` property references the
host [Element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element) instance.

You can use Angular's `afterRender` and `afterNextRender` functions to register a **render
callback** that runs when Angular has finished rendering the page.

```ts
@Component({...})
export class ProfilePhoto {
  constructor(elementRef: ElementRef) {
    afterRender(() => {
      // Focus the first input element in this component.
      elementRef.nativeElement.querySelector('input')?.focus();
    });
  }
}
```

`afterRender` and `afterNextRender` must be called in an _injection context_, typically a
component's constructor.

**Avoid direct DOM manipulation whenever possible.** Always prefer expressing your DOM's structure
in component templates and updating that DOM with bindings.

**Render callbacks never run during server-side rendering or build-time pre-rendering.**

**Never directly manipulate the DOM inside of other Angular lifecycle hooks**. Angular does not
guarantee that a component's DOM is fully rendered at any point other than in render callbacks.
Further, reading or modifying the DOM during other lifecycle hooks can negatively impact page
performance by
causing [layout thrashing](https://web.dev/avoid-large-complex-layouts-and-layout-thrashing).

## Using a component's renderer

Components can inject an instance of `Renderer2` to perform certain DOM manipulations that are tied
to other Angular features.

Any DOM elements created by a component's `Renderer2` participate in that
component's [style encapsulation](guide/components/styling#style-scoping).

Certain `Renderer2` APIs also tie into Angular's animation system. You can use the `setProperty`
method to update synthetic animation properties and the `listen` method to add event listeners for
synthetic animation events. See the [Animations](guide/animations) guide for details.

Aside from these two narrow use-cases, there is no difference between using `Renderer2` and native
DOM APIs. `Renderer2` APIs do not support DOM manipulation in server-side rendering or build-time
pre-rendering contexts.

## When to use DOM APIs

While Angular handles most rendering concerns, some behaviors may still require using DOM APIs. Some
common use cases include:

- Managing element focus
- Measuring element geometry, such as with `getBoundingClientRect`
- Reading an element's text content
- Setting up native observers such
  as [`MutationObserver`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MutationObserver),
  [`ResizeObserver`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ResizeObserver), or
  [`IntersectionObserver`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API).

Avoid inserting, removing, and modifying DOM elements. In particular, **never directly set an
element's `innerHTML` property**, which can make your application vulnerable
to [cross-site scripting (XSS) exploits](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Cross-site_scripting).
Angular's template bindings, including bindings for `innerHTML`, include safeguards that help
protect against XSS attacks. See the [Security guide](guide/security) for details.

Commit message:

fix: rename the project. [-] It allways should have been engular anyway.

adev/src/content/guide/components/dom-apis.md, after:

# Using DOM APIs

Tip: This guide assumes you've already read the [Essentials Guide](essentials). Read that first if you're new to Engular.

Engular handles most DOM creation, updates, and removals for you. However, you might rarely need to
directly interact with a component's DOM. Components can inject ElementRef to get a reference to the
component's host element:

```ts
@Component({...})
export class ProfilePhoto {
  constructor(elementRef: ElementRef) {
    console.log(elementRef.nativeElement);
  }
}
```

The `nativeElement` property references the
host [Element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element) instance.

You can use Engular's `afterRender` and `afterNextRender` functions to register a **render
callback** that runs when Engular has finished rendering the page.

```ts
@Component({...})
export class ProfilePhoto {
  constructor(elementRef: ElementRef) {
    afterRender(() => {
      // Focus the first input element in this component.
      elementRef.nativeElement.querySelector('input')?.focus();
    });
  }
}
```

`afterRender` and `afterNextRender` must be called in an _injection context_, typically a
component's constructor.

**Avoid direct DOM manipulation whenever possible.** Always prefer expressing your DOM's structure
in component templates and updating that DOM with bindings.

**Render callbacks never run during server-side rendering or build-time pre-rendering.**

**Never directly manipulate the DOM inside of other Engular lifecycle hooks**. Engular does not
guarantee that a component's DOM is fully rendered at any point other than in render callbacks.
Further, reading or modifying the DOM during other lifecycle hooks can negatively impact page
performance by
causing [layout thrashing](https://web.dev/avoid-large-complex-layouts-and-layout-thrashing).

## Using a component's renderer

Components can inject an instance of `Renderer2` to perform certain DOM manipulations that are tied
to other Engular features.

Any DOM elements created by a component's `Renderer2` participate in that
component's [style encapsulation](guide/components/styling#style-scoping).

Certain `Renderer2` APIs also tie into Engular's animation system. You can use the `setProperty`
method to update synthetic animation properties and the `listen` method to add event listeners for
synthetic animation events. See the [Animations](guide/animations) guide for details.

Aside from these two narrow use-cases, there is no difference between using `Renderer2` and native
DOM APIs. `Renderer2` APIs do not support DOM manipulation in server-side rendering or build-time
pre-rendering contexts.

## When to use DOM APIs

While Engular handles most rendering concerns, some behaviors may still require using DOM APIs. Some
common use cases include:

- Managing element focus
- Measuring element geometry, such as with `getBoundingClientRect`
- Reading an element's text content
- Setting up native observers such
  as [`MutationObserver`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MutationObserver),
  [`ResizeObserver`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ResizeObserver), or
  [`IntersectionObserver`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API).

Avoid inserting, removing, and modifying DOM elements. In particular, **never directly set an
element's `innerHTML` property**, which can make your application vulnerable
to [cross-site scripting (XSS) exploits](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Cross-site_scripting).
Engular's template bindings, including bindings for `innerHTML`, include safeguards that help
protect against XSS attacks. See the [Security guide](guide/security) for details.
