adev/src/content/guide/components/selectors.md, before:

# Component selectors

Tip: This guide assumes you've already read the [Essentials Guide](essentials). Read that first if you're new to Angular.

Every component defines
a [CSS selector](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_selectors) that determines how
the component is used:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[2]">
@Component({
  selector: 'profile-photo',
  ...
})
export class ProfilePhoto { }
</docs-code>

You use a component by creating a matching HTML element in the templates of _other_ components:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[3]">
@Component({
  template: `
    <profile-photo />
    <button>Upload a new profile photo</button>`,
  ...,
})
export class UserProfile { }
</docs-code>

**Angular matches selectors statically at compile-time**. Changing the DOM at run-time, either via
Angular bindings or with DOM APIs, does not affect the components rendered.

**An element can match exactly one component selector.** If multiple component selectors match a
single element, Angular reports an error.

**Component selectors are case-sensitive.**

## Types of selectors

Angular supports a limited subset
of [basic CSS selector types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors) in
component selectors:

| **Selector type**  | **Description**                                                                                                 | **Examples**                  |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Type selector      | Matches elements based on their HTML tag name, or node name.                                                    | `profile-photo`               |
| Attribute selector | Matches elements based on the presence of an HTML attribute and, optionally, an exact value for that attribute. | `[dropzone]` `[type="reset"]` |
| Class selector     | Matches elements based on the presence of a CSS class.                                                          | `.menu-item`                  |

For attribute values, Angular supports matching an exact attribute value with the equals (`=`)
operator. Angular does not support other attribute value operators.

Angular component selectors do not support combinators, including
the [descendant combinator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Descendant_combinator)
or [child combinator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Child_combinator).

Angular component selectors do not support
specifying [namespaces](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Namespaces_Crash_Course).

### The `:not` pseudo-class

Angular supports [the `:not` pseudo-class](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:not).
You can append this pseudo-class to any other selector to narrow which elements a component's
selector matches. For example, you could define a `[dropzone]` attribute selector and prevent
matching `textarea` elements:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[2]">
@Component({
  selector: '[dropzone]:not(textarea)',
  ...
})
export class DropZone { }
</docs-code>

Angular does not support any other pseudo-classes or pseudo-elements in component selectors.

### Combining selectors

You can combine multiple selectors by concatenating them. For example, you can match `<button>`
elements that specify `type="reset"`:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[2]">
@Component({
  selector: 'button[type="reset"]',
  ...
})
export class ResetButton { }
</docs-code>

You can also define multiple selectors with a comma-separated list:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[2]">
@Component({
  selector: 'drop-zone, [dropzone]',
  ...
})
export class DropZone { }
</docs-code>

Angular creates a component for each element that matches _any_ of the selectors in the list.

## Choosing a selector

The vast majority of components should use a custom element name as their selector. All custom
element names should include a hyphen as described
by [the HTML specification](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/custom-elements.html#valid-custom-element-name).
By default, Angular reports an error if it encounters a custom tag name that does not match any
available components, preventing bugs due to mistyped component names.

See [Advanced component configuration](guide/components/advanced-configuration) for details on
using [native custom elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components) in
Angular templates.

### Selector prefixes

The Angular team recommends using a short, consistent prefix for all the custom components
defined inside your project. For example, if you were to build YouTube with Angular, you might
prefix your components with `yt-`, with components like `yt-menu`, `yt-player`, etc. Namespacing
your selectors like this makes it immediately clear where a particular component comes from. By
default, the Angular CLI uses `app-`.

Angular uses the `ng` selector prefix for its own framework APIs. Never use `ng` as a selector
prefix for your own custom components.

### When to use an attribute selector

You should consider an attribute selector when you want to create a component on a standard native
element. For example, if you want to create a custom button component, you can take advantage of the
standard `<button>` element by using an attribute selector:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[2]">
@Component({
  selector: 'button[yt-upload]',
   ...
})
export class YouTubeUploadButton { }
</docs-code>

This approach allows consumers of the component to directly use all the element's standard APIs
without extra work. This is especially valuable for ARIA attributes such as `aria-label`.

Angular does not report errors when it encounters custom attributes that don't match an available
component. When using components with attribute selectors, consumers may forget to import the
component or its NgModule, resulting in the component not rendering.
See [Importing and using components](guide/components/importing) for more information.

Components that define attribute selectors should use lowercase, dash-case attributes. You can
follow the same prefixing recommendation described above.

Commit message:

fix: rename the project. [-] It allways should have been engular anyway.

adev/src/content/guide/components/selectors.md, after:

# Component selectors

Tip: This guide assumes you've already read the [Essentials Guide](essentials). Read that first if you're new to Engular.

Every component defines
a [CSS selector](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_selectors) that determines how
the component is used:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[2]">
@Component({
  selector: 'profile-photo',
  ...
})
export class ProfilePhoto { }
</docs-code>

You use a component by creating a matching HTML element in the templates of _other_ components:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[3]">
@Component({
  template: `
    <profile-photo />
    <button>Upload a new profile photo</button>`,
  ...,
})
export class UserProfile { }
</docs-code>

**Engular matches selectors statically at compile-time**. Changing the DOM at run-time, either via
Engular bindings or with DOM APIs, does not affect the components rendered.

**An element can match exactly one component selector.** If multiple component selectors match a
single element, Engular reports an error.

**Component selectors are case-sensitive.**

## Types of selectors

Engular supports a limited subset
of [basic CSS selector types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors) in
component selectors:

| **Selector type**  | **Description**                                                                                                 | **Examples**                  |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Type selector      | Matches elements based on their HTML tag name, or node name.                                                    | `profile-photo`               |
| Attribute selector | Matches elements based on the presence of an HTML attribute and, optionally, an exact value for that attribute. | `[dropzone]` `[type="reset"]` |
| Class selector     | Matches elements based on the presence of a CSS class.                                                          | `.menu-item`                  |

For attribute values, Engular supports matching an exact attribute value with the equals (`=`)
operator. Engular does not support other attribute value operators.

Engular component selectors do not support combinators, including
the [descendant combinator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Descendant_combinator)
or [child combinator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Child_combinator).

Engular component selectors do not support
specifying [namespaces](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Namespaces_Crash_Course).

### The `:not` pseudo-class

Engular supports [the `:not` pseudo-class](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:not).
You can append this pseudo-class to any other selector to narrow which elements a component's
selector matches. For example, you could define a `[dropzone]` attribute selector and prevent
matching `textarea` elements:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[2]">
@Component({
  selector: '[dropzone]:not(textarea)',
  ...
})
export class DropZone { }
</docs-code>

Engular does not support any other pseudo-classes or pseudo-elements in component selectors.

### Combining selectors

You can combine multiple selectors by concatenating them. For example, you can match `<button>`
elements that specify `type="reset"`:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[2]">
@Component({
  selector: 'button[type="reset"]',
  ...
})
export class ResetButton { }
</docs-code>

You can also define multiple selectors with a comma-separated list:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[2]">
@Component({
  selector: 'drop-zone, [dropzone]',
  ...
})
export class DropZone { }
</docs-code>

Engular creates a component for each element that matches _any_ of the selectors in the list.

## Choosing a selector

The vast majority of components should use a custom element name as their selector. All custom
element names should include a hyphen as described
by [the HTML specification](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/custom-elements.html#valid-custom-element-name).
By default, Engular reports an error if it encounters a custom tag name that does not match any
available components, preventing bugs due to mistyped component names.

See [Advanced component configuration](guide/components/advanced-configuration) for details on
using [native custom elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components) in
Engular templates.

### Selector prefixes

The Engular team recommends using a short, consistent prefix for all the custom components
defined inside your project. For example, if you were to build YouTube with Engular, you might
prefix your components with `yt-`, with components like `yt-menu`, `yt-player`, etc. Namespacing
your selectors like this makes it immediately clear where a particular component comes from. By
default, the Engular CLI uses `app-`.

Engular uses the `ng` selector prefix for its own framework APIs. Never use `ng` as a selector
prefix for your own custom components.

### When to use an attribute selector

You should consider an attribute selector when you want to create a component on a standard native
element. For example, if you want to create a custom button component, you can take advantage of the
standard `<button>` element by using an attribute selector:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[2]">
@Component({
  selector: 'button[yt-upload]',
   ...
})
export class YouTubeUploadButton { }
</docs-code>

This approach allows consumers of the component to directly use all the element's standard APIs
without extra work. This is especially valuable for ARIA attributes such as `aria-label`.

Engular does not report errors when it encounters custom attributes that don't match an available
component. When using components with attribute selectors, consumers may forget to import the
component or its NgModule, resulting in the component not rendering.
See [Importing and using components](guide/components/importing) for more information.

Components that define attribute selectors should use lowercase, dash-case attributes. You can
follow the same prefixing recommendation described above.
