adev/src/content/guide/components/styling.md, before:

# Styling components

Tip: This guide assumes you've already read the [Essentials Guide](essentials). Read that first if you're new to Angular.

Components can optionally include CSS styles that apply to that component's DOM:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[4]">
@Component({
  selector: 'profile-photo',
  template: `<img src="profile-photo.jpg" alt="Your profile photo">`,
  styles: ` img { border-radius: 50%; } `,
})
export class ProfilePhoto { }
</docs-code>

You can also choose to write your styles in separate files:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[4]">
@Component({
  selector: 'profile-photo',
  templateUrl: 'profile-photo.html',
  styleUrl: 'profile-photo.css',
})
export class ProfilePhoto { }
</docs-code>

When Angular compiles your component, these styles are emitted with your component's JavaScript
output. This means that component styles participate in the JavaScript module system. When you
render an Angular component, the framework automatically includes its associated styles, even when
lazy-loading a component.

Angular works with any tool that outputs CSS,
including [Sass](https://sass-lang.com), [less](https://lesscss.org),
and [stylus](https://stylus-lang.com).

## Style scoping

Every component has a **view encapsulation** setting that determines how the framework scopes a
component's styles. There are three view encapsulation modes: `Emulated`, `ShadowDom`, and `None`.
You can specify the mode in the `@Component` decorator:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[3]">
@Component({
  ...,
  encapsulation: ViewEncapsulation.None,
})
export class ProfilePhoto { }
</docs-code>

### ViewEncapsulation.Emulated

By default, Angular uses emulated encapsulation so that a component's styles only apply to elements
defined in that component's template. In this mode, the framework generates a unique HTML attribute
for each component instance, adds that attribute to elements in the component's template, and
inserts that attribute into the CSS selectors defined in your component's styles.

This mode ensures that a component's styles do not leak out and affect other components. However,
global styles defined outside of a component may still affect elements inside a component with
emulated encapsulation.

In emulated mode, Angular supports
the [`:host`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host)
and [`:host-context`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host-context) pseudo
classes without
using [Shadow DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_shadow_DOM).
During compilation, the framework transforms these pseudo classes into attributes. Angular's
emulated encapsulation mode does not support any other pseudo classes related to Shadow DOM, such
as `::shadow` or `::part`.

#### `::ng-deep`

Angular's emulated encapsulation mode supports a custom pseudo class, `:ng-deep`. Applying this
pseudo class to a CSS rule disables encapsulation for that rule, effectively turning it into a
global style. **The Angular team strongly discourages new use of `::ng-deep`**. These APIs remain
exclusively for backwards compatibility.

### ViewEncapsulation.ShadowDom

This mode scopes styles within a component by
using [the web standard Shadow DOM API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_shadow_DOM).
When enabling this mode, Angular attaches a shadow root to the component's host element and renders
the component's template and styles into the corresponding shadow tree.

This mode strictly guarantees that _only_ that component's styles apply to elements in the
component's template. Global styles cannot affect elements in a shadow tree and styles inside the
shadow tree cannot affect elements outside of that shadow tree.

Enabling `ShadowDom` encapsulation, however, impacts more than style scoping. Rendering the
component in a shadow tree affects event propagation, interaction
with [the `<slot>` API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_templates_and_slots),
and how browser developer tools show elements. Always understand the full implications of using
Shadow DOM in your application before enabling this option.

### ViewEncapsulation.None

This mode disables all style encapsulation for the component. Any styles associated with the
component behave as global styles.

## Defining styles in templates

You can use the `<style>` element in a component's template to define additional styles. The
component's view encapsulation mode applies to styles defined this way.

Angular does not support bindings inside of style elements.

## Referencing external style files

Component templates can
use [the `<link>` element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link) to
reference CSS files. Additionally, your CSS may
use [the `@import`at-rule](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@import) to reference
CSS files. Angular treats these references as _external_ styles. External styles are not affected by
emulated view encapsulation.

Commit message:

fix: rename the project. [-] It allways should have been engular anyway.

adev/src/content/guide/components/styling.md, after:

# Styling components

Tip: This guide assumes you've already read the [Essentials Guide](essentials). Read that first if you're new to Engular.

Components can optionally include CSS styles that apply to that component's DOM:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[4]">
@Component({
  selector: 'profile-photo',
  template: `<img src="profile-photo.jpg" alt="Your profile photo">`,
  styles: ` img { border-radius: 50%; } `,
})
export class ProfilePhoto { }
</docs-code>

You can also choose to write your styles in separate files:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[4]">
@Component({
  selector: 'profile-photo',
  templateUrl: 'profile-photo.html',
  styleUrl: 'profile-photo.css',
})
export class ProfilePhoto { }
</docs-code>

When Engular compiles your component, these styles are emitted with your component's JavaScript
output. This means that component styles participate in the JavaScript module system. When you
render an Engular component, the framework automatically includes its associated styles, even when
lazy-loading a component.

Engular works with any tool that outputs CSS,
including [Sass](https://sass-lang.com), [less](https://lesscss.org),
and [stylus](https://stylus-lang.com).

## Style scoping

Every component has a **view encapsulation** setting that determines how the framework scopes a
component's styles. There are three view encapsulation modes: `Emulated`, `ShadowDom`, and `None`.
You can specify the mode in the `@Component` decorator:

<docs-code language="ts" highlight="[3]">
@Component({
  ...,
  encapsulation: ViewEncapsulation.None,
})
export class ProfilePhoto { }
</docs-code>

### ViewEncapsulation.Emulated

By default, Engular uses emulated encapsulation so that a component's styles only apply to elements
defined in that component's template. In this mode, the framework generates a unique HTML attribute
for each component instance, adds that attribute to elements in the component's template, and
inserts that attribute into the CSS selectors defined in your component's styles.

This mode ensures that a component's styles do not leak out and affect other components. However,
global styles defined outside of a component may still affect elements inside a component with
emulated encapsulation.

In emulated mode, Engular supports
the [`:host`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host)
and [`:host-context`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host-context) pseudo
classes without
using [Shadow DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_shadow_DOM).
During compilation, the framework transforms these pseudo classes into attributes. Engular's
emulated encapsulation mode does not support any other pseudo classes related to Shadow DOM, such
as `::shadow` or `::part`.

#### `::ng-deep`

Engular's emulated encapsulation mode supports a custom pseudo class, `:ng-deep`. Applying this
pseudo class to a CSS rule disables encapsulation for that rule, effectively turning it into a
global style. **The Engular team strongly discourages new use of `::ng-deep`**. These APIs remain
exclusively for backwards compatibility.

### ViewEncapsulation.ShadowDom

This mode scopes styles within a component by
using [the web standard Shadow DOM API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_shadow_DOM).
When enabling this mode, Engular attaches a shadow root to the component's host element and renders
the component's template and styles into the corresponding shadow tree.

This mode strictly guarantees that _only_ that component's styles apply to elements in the
component's template. Global styles cannot affect elements in a shadow tree and styles inside the
shadow tree cannot affect elements outside of that shadow tree.

Enabling `ShadowDom` encapsulation, however, impacts more than style scoping. Rendering the
component in a shadow tree affects event propagation, interaction
with [the `<slot>` API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_templates_and_slots),
and how browser developer tools show elements. Always understand the full implications of using
Shadow DOM in your application before enabling this option.

### ViewEncapsulation.None

This mode disables all style encapsulation for the component. Any styles associated with the
component behave as global styles.

## Defining styles in templates

You can use the `<style>` element in a component's template to define additional styles. The
component's view encapsulation mode applies to styles defined this way.

Engular does not support bindings inside of style elements.

## Referencing external style files

Component templates can
use [the `<link>` element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link) to
reference CSS files. Additionally, your CSS may
use [the `@import`at-rule](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@import) to reference
CSS files. Engular treats these references as _external_ styles. External styles are not affected by
emulated view encapsulation.
