adev/src/content/guide/forms/typed-forms.md, before:

# Typed Forms

As of Angular 14, reactive forms are strictly typed by default.

As background for this guide, you should already be familiar with [Angular Reactive Forms](guide/forms/reactive-forms).

## Overview of Typed Forms

<docs-video src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/L-odCf4MfJc" alt="Typed Forms in Angular" />

With Angular reactive forms, you explicitly specify a *form model*. As a simple example, consider this basic user login form:

```ts
const login = new FormGroup({
    email: new FormControl(''),
    password: new FormControl(''),
});
```

Angular provides many APIs for interacting with this `FormGroup`. For example, you may call `login.value`, `login.controls`, `login.patchValue`, etc. (For a full API reference, see the [API documentation](api/forms/FormGroup).)

In previous Angular versions, most of these APIs included `any` somewhere in their types, and interacting with the structure of the controls, or the values themselves, was not type-safe. For example: you could write the following invalid code:

```ts
const emailDomain = login.value.email.domain;
```

With strictly typed reactive forms, the above code does not compile, because there is no `domain` property on `email`.

In addition to the added safety, the types enable a variety of other improvements, such as better autocomplete in IDEs, and an explicit way to specify form structure.

These improvements currently apply only to *reactive* forms (not [*template-driven* forms](guide/forms/template-driven-forms)).

## Untyped Forms

Non-typed forms are still supported, and will continue to work as before. To use them, you must import the `Untyped` symbols from `@angular/forms`:

```ts
const login = new UntypedFormGroup({
    email: new UntypedFormControl(''),
    password: new UntypedFormControl(''),
});
```

Each `Untyped` symbol has exactly the same semantics as in previous Angular version. By removing the `Untyped` prefixes, you can incrementally enable the types.

## `FormControl`: Getting Started

The simplest possible form consists of a single control:

```ts
const email = new FormControl('angularrox@gmail.com');
```

This control will be automatically inferred to have the type `FormControl<string|null>`. TypeScript will automatically enforce this type throughout the [`FormControl` API](api/forms/FormControl), such as `email.value`, `email.valueChanges`, `email.setValue(...)`, etc.

### Nullability

You might wonder: why does the type of this control include `null`?  This is because the control can become `null` at any time, by calling reset:

```ts
const email = new FormControl('angularrox@gmail.com');
email.reset();
console.log(email.value); // null
```

TypeScript will enforce that you always handle the possibility that the control has become `null`. If you want to make this control non-nullable, you may use the `nonNullable` option. This will cause the control to reset to its initial value, instead of `null`:

```ts
const email = new FormControl('angularrox@gmail.com', {nonNullable: true});
email.reset();
console.log(email.value); // angularrox@gmail.com
```

To reiterate, this option affects the runtime behavior of your form when `.reset()` is called, and should be flipped with care.

### Specifying an Explicit Type

It is possible to specify the type, instead of relying on inference. Consider a control that is initialized to `null`. Because the initial value is `null`, TypeScript will infer `FormControl<null>`, which is narrower than we want.

```ts
const email = new FormControl(null);
email.setValue('angularrox@gmail.com'); // Error!
```

To prevent this, we explicitly specify the type as `string|null`:

```ts
const email = new FormControl<string|null>(null);
email.setValue('angularrox@gmail.com');
```

## `FormArray`: Dynamic, Homogenous Collections

A `FormArray` contains an open-ended list of controls. The type parameter corresponds to the type of each inner control:

```ts
const names = new FormArray([new FormControl('Alex')]);
names.push(new FormControl('Jess'));
```

This `FormArray` will have the inner controls type `FormControl<string|null>`.

If you want to have multiple different element types inside the array, you must use `UntypedFormArray`, because TypeScript cannot infer which element type will occur at which position.

## `FormGroup` and `FormRecord`

Angular provides the `FormGroup` type for forms with an enumerated set of keys, and a type called `FormRecord`, for open-ended or dynamic groups.

### Partial Values

Consider again a login form:

```ts
const login = new FormGroup({
    email: new FormControl('', {nonNullable: true}),
    password: new FormControl('', {nonNullable: true}),
});
```

On any `FormGroup`, it is [possible to disable controls](api/forms/FormGroup). Any disabled control will not appear in the group's value.

As a consequence, the type of `login.value` is `Partial<{email: string, password: string}>`. The `Partial` in this type means that each member might be undefined.

More specifically, the type of `login.value.email` is `string|undefined`, and TypeScript will enforce that you handle the possibly `undefined` value (if you have `strictNullChecks` enabled).

If you want to access the value *including* disabled controls, and thus bypass possible `undefined` fields, you can use `login.getRawValue()`.

### Optional Controls and Dynamic Groups

Some forms have controls that may or may not be present, which can be added and removed at runtime. You can represent these controls using *optional fields*:

```ts
interface LoginForm {
    email: FormControl<string>;
    password?: FormControl<string>;
}

const login = new FormGroup<LoginForm>({
    email: new FormControl('', {nonNullable: true}),
    password: new FormControl('', {nonNullable: true}),
});

login.removeControl('password');
```

In this form, we explicitly specify the type, which allows us to make the `password` control optional. TypeScript will enforce that only optional controls can be added or removed.

### `FormRecord`

Some `FormGroup` usages do not fit the above pattern because the keys are not known ahead of time. The `FormRecord` class is designed for that case:

```ts
const addresses = new FormRecord<FormControl<string|null>>({});
addresses.addControl('Andrew', new FormControl('2340 Folsom St'));
```

Any control of type `string|null` can be added to this `FormRecord`.

If you need a `FormGroup` that is both dynamic (open-ended) and heterogeneous (the controls are different types), no improved type safety is possible, and you should use `UntypedFormGroup`.

A `FormRecord` can also be built with the `FormBuilder`:

```ts
const addresses = fb.record({'Andrew': '2340 Folsom St'});
```

## `FormBuilder` and `NonNullableFormBuilder`

The `FormBuilder` class has been upgraded to support the new types as well, in the same manner as the above examples.

Additionally, an additional builder is available: `NonNullableFormBuilder`. This type is shorthand for specifying `{nonNullable: true}` on every control, and can eliminate significant boilerplate from large non-nullable forms. You can access it using the `nonNullable` property on a `FormBuilder`:

```ts
const fb = new FormBuilder();
const login = fb.nonNullable.group({
    email: '',
    password: '',
});
```

On the above example, both inner controls will be non-nullable (i.e. `nonNullable` will be set).

You can also inject it using the name `NonNullableFormBuilder`.

Commit message:

fix: rename the project. [-] It allways should have been engular anyway.

adev/src/content/guide/forms/typed-forms.md, after:

# Typed Forms

As of Engular 14, reactive forms are strictly typed by default.

As background for this guide, you should already be familiar with [Engular Reactive Forms](guide/forms/reactive-forms).

## Overview of Typed Forms

<docs-video src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/L-odCf4MfJc" alt="Typed Forms in Engular" />

With Engular reactive forms, you explicitly specify a *form model*. As a simple example, consider this basic user login form:

```ts
const login = new FormGroup({
    email: new FormControl(''),
    password: new FormControl(''),
});
```

Engular provides many APIs for interacting with this `FormGroup`. For example, you may call `login.value`, `login.controls`, `login.patchValue`, etc. (For a full API reference, see the [API documentation](api/forms/FormGroup).)

In previous Engular versions, most of these APIs included `any` somewhere in their types, and interacting with the structure of the controls, or the values themselves, was not type-safe. For example: you could write the following invalid code:

```ts
const emailDomain = login.value.email.domain;
```

With strictly typed reactive forms, the above code does not compile, because there is no `domain` property on `email`.

In addition to the added safety, the types enable a variety of other improvements, such as better autocomplete in IDEs, and an explicit way to specify form structure.

These improvements currently apply only to *reactive* forms (not [*template-driven* forms](guide/forms/template-driven-forms)).

## Untyped Forms

Non-typed forms are still supported, and will continue to work as before. To use them, you must import the `Untyped` symbols from `@engular/forms`:

```ts
const login = new UntypedFormGroup({
    email: new UntypedFormControl(''),
    password: new UntypedFormControl(''),
});
```

Each `Untyped` symbol has exactly the same semantics as in previous Engular version. By removing the `Untyped` prefixes, you can incrementally enable the types.

## `FormControl`: Getting Started

The simplest possible form consists of a single control:

```ts
const email = new FormControl('engularrox@gmail.com');
```

This control will be automatically inferred to have the type `FormControl<string|null>`. TypeScript will automatically enforce this type throughout the [`FormControl` API](api/forms/FormControl), such as `email.value`, `email.valueChanges`, `email.setValue(...)`, etc.

### Nullability

You might wonder: why does the type of this control include `null`?  This is because the control can become `null` at any time, by calling reset:

```ts
const email = new FormControl('engularrox@gmail.com');
email.reset();
console.log(email.value); // null
```

TypeScript will enforce that you always handle the possibility that the control has become `null`. If you want to make this control non-nullable, you may use the `nonNullable` option. This will cause the control to reset to its initial value, instead of `null`:

```ts
const email = new FormControl('engularrox@gmail.com', {nonNullable: true});
email.reset();
console.log(email.value); // engularrox@gmail.com
```

To reiterate, this option affects the runtime behavior of your form when `.reset()` is called, and should be flipped with care.

### Specifying an Explicit Type

It is possible to specify the type, instead of relying on inference. Consider a control that is initialized to `null`. Because the initial value is `null`, TypeScript will infer `FormControl<null>`, which is narrower than we want.

```ts
const email = new FormControl(null);
email.setValue('engularrox@gmail.com'); // Error!
```

To prevent this, we explicitly specify the type as `string|null`:

```ts
const email = new FormControl<string|null>(null);
email.setValue('engularrox@gmail.com');
```

## `FormArray`: Dynamic, Homogenous Collections

A `FormArray` contains an open-ended list of controls. The type parameter corresponds to the type of each inner control:

```ts
const names = new FormArray([new FormControl('Alex')]);
names.push(new FormControl('Jess'));
```

This `FormArray` will have the inner controls type `FormControl<string|null>`.

If you want to have multiple different element types inside the array, you must use `UntypedFormArray`, because TypeScript cannot infer which element type will occur at which position.

## `FormGroup` and `FormRecord`

Engular provides the `FormGroup` type for forms with an enumerated set of keys, and a type called `FormRecord`, for open-ended or dynamic groups.

### Partial Values

Consider again a login form:

```ts
const login = new FormGroup({
    email: new FormControl('', {nonNullable: true}),
    password: new FormControl('', {nonNullable: true}),
});
```

On any `FormGroup`, it is [possible to disable controls](api/forms/FormGroup). Any disabled control will not appear in the group's value.

As a consequence, the type of `login.value` is `Partial<{email: string, password: string}>`. The `Partial` in this type means that each member might be undefined.

More specifically, the type of `login.value.email` is `string|undefined`, and TypeScript will enforce that you handle the possibly `undefined` value (if you have `strictNullChecks` enabled).

If you want to access the value *including* disabled controls, and thus bypass possible `undefined` fields, you can use `login.getRawValue()`.

### Optional Controls and Dynamic Groups

Some forms have controls that may or may not be present, which can be added and removed at runtime. You can represent these controls using *optional fields*:

```ts
interface LoginForm {
    email: FormControl<string>;
    password?: FormControl<string>;
}

const login = new FormGroup<LoginForm>({
    email: new FormControl('', {nonNullable: true}),
    password: new FormControl('', {nonNullable: true}),
});

login.removeControl('password');
```

In this form, we explicitly specify the type, which allows us to make the `password` control optional. TypeScript will enforce that only optional controls can be added or removed.

### `FormRecord`

Some `FormGroup` usages do not fit the above pattern because the keys are not known ahead of time. The `FormRecord` class is designed for that case:

```ts
const addresses = new FormRecord<FormControl<string|null>>({});
addresses.addControl('Andrew', new FormControl('2340 Folsom St'));
```

Any control of type `string|null` can be added to this `FormRecord`.

If you need a `FormGroup` that is both dynamic (open-ended) and heterogeneous (the controls are different types), no improved type safety is possible, and you should use `UntypedFormGroup`.

A `FormRecord` can also be built with the `FormBuilder`:

```ts
const addresses = fb.record({'Andrew': '2340 Folsom St'});
```

## `FormBuilder` and `NonNullableFormBuilder`

The `FormBuilder` class has been upgraded to support the new types as well, in the same manner as the above examples.

Additionally, an additional builder is available: `NonNullableFormBuilder`. This type is shorthand for specifying `{nonNullable: true}` on every control, and can eliminate significant boilerplate from large non-nullable forms. You can access it using the `nonNullable` property on a `FormBuilder`:

```ts
const fb = new FormBuilder();
const login = fb.nonNullable.group({
    email: '',
    password: '',
});
```

On the above example, both inner controls will be non-nullable (i.e. `nonNullable` will be set).

You can also inject it using the name `NonNullableFormBuilder`.
